---------------

The Principle is not true

What do people normally mean for something to be free?

What would the world look like if free will were true in the incompatiblist sense?

Is Free Will in such a sense conceptually possible

There's a lot of ways we're going to distinguish actions
	* Actions that an agent could have changed if given motivation versus otherwise
	* Actions that one was free to do in the incompatibalist sense
	* The former is more useful
	* The latter is useless
	* May as well define the former as free will
	
The incompatibalist conception doesn't get at what we mean by free will. We really mean:
* Event -> Thing -> Event -> .... -> Person -> Event -> Thing -> Event -> Event
* Free Will incompatible with indeterminism

It doesn't make sense to say that internal events force a person to do something; internal events just is what makes up a person.
-> Agent A has property P only if: there is no E where A and E are R related
-> This doesn't apply when E makes up A
-> A person has free will only if: there is no entity where the entity forces A to do something
-> E.g. A nation runs an army absolutely only if: no other entity has control over the person
-> This holds even if the other entity is "citizens of the nation", *that* is the nation
-> This holds even if the citizens of the nation are influenced by outsiders

----------------- Our intuitions of free will / responsibility (combined with simulation)

To say that "X is responsible for Y" is to say that...

									X did Y 
			AND
									X would have done not Y		-> No
	
	There exists an X',	X' would have done Y			-> We already know that
	For all X', 					X' would have done Y			-> Negates Free Will
	
	There exists an X',	X' would have done not Y	-> Provides Free Will
	For all X'				,	X' would have done not Y	-> Provides Ultimate Free Will	

									X' = All X that are exactly the same, except with different wills
	
-> Incompatibalist will agree that "there exists an X' s.t. X' would have done not Y" is a necessary condition.
-> Presumably, it will be important to distinguish ordinary cases from cases where X' could have not done otherwise. Call this power Free Will Lite. Note that this does not require indeterminism.
-> Incompatibalist also wants to add that "X would have done otherwise" is a necessary condition, a stricter necessary condition.
-> Incompatabalist will want to call this power Free Will. This requires indeterminism.

So we have agreed that Free Will Lite is an important, necessary distinction (it seems we shouldn't say someone has Free Will if they had to do X, regardless of their will.).

->  There are reasons for this agreement

The question is, whether there is any value in cases where X could have done differently even with the same will?

No, then there must be some other fact F, outside of the person, such that A did X because of F. But it seems that in these cases, one clearly does not have Free Will. Consider:

-> A person is driving and someone bumps the car, forcing him to kill children. 
-> A person is minding his own business and accidentally does something good.

In neither case is A morally responsible for X. Why? Because in both cases, whether or not A did X depended upon external factors.

Incompatibalist: No, he isn't morally responsible because in both cases, his action was determined. 

Me: Okay, let us imagine analgous scenarios where the person's action is not determined. Again, the person doesn't have free will. Why? Because whether he did those actions is independent of himself

Incompatibalist: Actually, he does have free will, and is morally responsible.

But this is the same issue: You're saying that A is responsible for doing X even in cases where whether or not A did X depends on some other fact F, where that outside F is "whether or not the thing controlling A is determined or not"

---------- Simulate indeterminism (combined with intuitions)

Maybe you still think there's a difference. Fine.

(1) If Free Will doesn't exist, then we could create it:

	Imagine there's some indeterminacy in our world via quantum mechanics.
	Place in everyone's brain a chip of that accesses quantum mechanic information. 
	It occassionally makes your brain make random decisions.
	Better yet, make it biological; so instead of a chip, we alter their brains.
	Evaluate someone's brain and it's impossible to tell what decision they will make.
	
(2) This does not seem like free will at all. 

	It's not like we FINALLY have free will and moral responsibility
	Is THIS what enables us to make the following blameworthy/praiseworthy judgements
	Because of some random quantum fluctuation event?
	At the very least, it's not something we want.
	This doesn't seem like free will.

(3) These people would be more similar to mental insanity and instability: 

	We tend to give less moral responsibility to such unstable persons.
	
(4) Compare that with our lives now:

	In an deterministic world, you coud have inclinations to do right, but nothing is free.
	But in an indeterministic world, you could have inclinations to do right, but screw up.
	The latter is free?

----------

Agent Causation:

	Event Causation:
	
		A causal relationship between two propositions
		An event caused another event.
		An object having some feature caused another object to have a feature
		
		
	Agent Causation:

		A causal relationship between an agent and an event.
		An agent caused an event/proposition.


Ultimate Source:

	Requires that agents be the ultimate source of all factors that go into our acts.
	
	But we cannot be such an ultimate source, so there's no free will.
	
	Types of explanations for acts:
	
		1. Agent-Causation
		2. No explanation; it's random
		3. Character traits, reasons, etc. (it's not random)
			
			a. These traits can be determined, but don't determine the act 
				(though they somehow explain the act).
			
			b. The traits must be determined in the right way, but don't determine the act
				(though they somehow explain the act).
				(seems like determinism)
			
			c. These traits cannot be determined by outside factors, and don't determine the act.
				(ultimate source)
	
			Can a thing not be random, yet not be determined?

----------------

First order desire: A desire to do a particular action

Will: his effective desire; the desire by which he is motivated in an action he performs, or the desire by which he would be motivated when or if he acts.

Higher order desire: To want a particular desire

Higher order volitions: To want a particular desire to be his will (or to be effective)

Freedom of will: to satisfy a higher order volition: he is free to have the will he wants; he is free to want a particular desire to be effective, and to have that particular desire actually be effective - his desired will actually constitutes his will.(even if he lacked freedom of action)

Freedom of action: free to do what he wants. If desire D (to do X) was effective, then he would have done X (does not require freedom of will)

A person has moral responsibility: he did X freely or he did X because of his will (requires neither freedom of action nor freedom of will)

Two properties of free will: There needs to be a reason why we desire it, and we should not ascribe it to other animals.